0. Relationaship is association between 2 or more entities in given database.

1. in a given Database there are always multiple entities.
   ex:- in a given Banking Database there are entities like 
        1. Customers
        2. Loan 
        3. Account , etc..

    and each of these entities are related to each other.

    ex:- 
        Customers borrow Loan  => borrow is relationship between Customers and Loan
        Customers deposit Account => deposit is relationship between Customers and Account

    SO entities IN GIVEN DATABASE MAY BE CONNECTED TO EACH OTHER.


2. Degree of Realation => how many entities are there in a perticular relationship.

    1. unary relationship. => only one entity
        relationship between employee entity and manager entity is unary
        as manager is also an employee and manager handles also employee.

    1. binary relationship. => 2 entities are there 
        student and subject objects relation.

        MOSTLY RELATIONSHIP'S ARE binary NOT unary OR ternary.

    1. ternary relationship. => 3 entities are there 
        consider 3 entities as employee , Job , Branch.

        now every employee works on a Job and on a Branch.



3. relation constrains.
    1. Mapping cardianlity / cardianlity ratio.

        1. one to one(1 : 1) :- Each entity of Entity set A is associated with at most one entity of entity Set B.
                         i.e Each row of Table A is associated with at max one row of Table B.

                ex:- for a goverment database , each person entity is associated with only one adhar card entity.

        2. one to many(1 : N) :- Each entity of Entity set A is associated with one or more entity of entity Set B.     
                         i.e Each row of Table A is associated with one or more row of Table B , BUT EACH ROW OF B 
                             SHOUD BE ASSOCIATED TO ONLY ONE ROW OF TABLE A.

                ex:- inside a vehicle database , each person entity can have one or more car entity , but each car belongs 
                     to only one owner.

        3. many to one(N : 1) :- Multiple entities of Entity set A is associated with one entity of entity Set B.     
                         i.e Multiple rows of Table A is associated with one row of Table B.

                ex:- inside a university database , multiple courses are associated with one professor.


        4. many to many(N : M) :- one entity of A associated with multiple entities of B and vise versa.


                ex:- each Customer can buy multiple products from supermarket/mall and each product can be bought 
                     by multiple people.

                ex:- each student can have multiple courses enrolled and each course can be enrolled by multiple students.

    2. participation constrains.
        types of participations
            1. total participation
            2. partial participation

        1. total participation => consider a customer and loan relationship , it's not possible to have loan which is not taken 
                                but any customer , "Lawaris Loan not possible" , hence in this relationship loan will 
                                participate totally.

                                total participation is represented by double lines in ER diagramme

        2. partial participation => consider a customer and loan relationship , it is possible that customer dont have taken 
                                    any loan from bank , "Its not necessory that each customer should have taken a loan" , hence 
                                    customer will participate partially only.

                                    partial participation is represented by single line.

        strong entities may or may not have total participation
        weak entities always comes in total participation.

        ex:- consider a bank database , consider a relationship  of loan(strong entity) and payment(weak entity).

            loan is in partial participation and payment is in weak participation.