client machine => where end user lies
server machine => where remote computer serves required information/data.

0. DBMS-application architectures basically describes the interanal strucuture of how DBMS and application interacts with each other.
   i.e application(at users side like amazon , netflix , social media apps ,etc..) which lies on the users side requests for data 
       on server then server queries the DB and sends the data to users.

   so below T1 , T2 , T3 architectures describes how these 3 components are interacting with each other.

1. now depending on where client , server , DB lies BELOW ARE TYPES OF DBMS-application architectures.
   1. T1(Tier 1) architecture => client and server and DB lies on same machine. ex:- localhost for testing websites.

   2. T2(Tier 2) architecture => client and (server + DB)  are on 2 seperate machines , user programme/application 
                                 communicates with (server + database) in SQL (with help of JDBC(if application is written in java))

   3. T3(Tier 3) architecture => 1. these systems don't have direct communication of client and DBMS instead 
                                    client and server communicates and then server further fetches/writes/updates the required 
                                    info. from DBMS and sends the info back to client.
                                
                                 2. Big buisness logics like amazon , social media giants , etc.. are built on top of T3 architecture.
                                    so T3 architecture is widly used.
       
       Advantages of T3 over T1 , T2 :-
                    1. High scalability as as we can increase or reduce servers according to need with time.
                    2. Data integraty is high as serverse act as middle layer which minimize the chances of data corruption.
                    3. Security is high as client dont directly communicate with DB.(if client intentionally or accedently sends 
                       wrong/buggy sql queries then it may cauld faults in Database ,but T3 avoid these by introducing servers 
                       between DB and clients)
