diffrence between database and dbms.

0. DBMS is the inteface/software layer between database and users.
   users or apps dont directly use database to commands to DBMS and then 
   DBMS does required things to fullfill requirements.

1.	Definition	
    A database is a collection of connected information about people, locations, or things. 
	A database management system (DBMS) is a collection of programs that allow you to create, manage, and operate a database.


2.	Storage	
    Besides computers, databases can even be maintained in physical ledgers, books, or papers.	
    In a database management system (DBMS), all the records are maintained only on a computer.


3.	Data Retrieval	
    The retrieval of information from the databases can be done manually, through queries, or by using programs (C, C++, Java, etc.).	
    We can retrieve the data from the database management system through queries written in SQL.

4.	Speed	
    As databases can be handled manually or via computers, when SQL is not used to retrieve information, it can be very slow.	
    As a computer system is involved in a database management system, the retrieval of information is very quick.

5.	Access	
    The databases are not designed for a large number of people who can access data at the same time, rather it is designed for a very small number of people (preferably few people) who access data at different times.	
    The database management system is designed for a large number of people who can access the data at the same time.

6.	Data	
    Data is stored in databases. 	
    A database management system (DBMS) manages and manipulates data.

7.	Data Manipulation	
    In the case of the databases, very less information can be modified at a time.	
    In the database management system (DBMS), a lot of information can be changed at one time (as it can have many users using it at the same time).

8.	Backup and Recovery	The databases do not ensure that the data will be available after failure arises.	
    The database management system (DBMS) ensures that the data will always be available even after system failures.
